So, now that we've got those beginner
types down, the integers, the strings,
the lists, we're gonna talk about some of
the more advanced data types in Python and
those are sets, tuples, and dictionaries.
These container types let us organize
other types of objects into data
structures and take actions on them.
Some of these are mutable,
some of them are not.
They have different ways of
accessing the values inside.
Just like I had a cheat sheet for
lists on the course website,
I also have a cheat sheet for
sets Tuples and dictionaries.
So after this chapter if you
feel like you're still not
sure what the differences are,
how to access values in them what methods
you can call if they're mutable or not.
Just go back to the cheat sheet.
It will be your handy guide and
spirit animal tuples are The first data
type that we're going to talk about
they're lightweight collections that
are used to keep track of related but
different items.
There's no rule or syntax error that
says they have to be used this way.
Lists are generally used to have
contained similar types of items in them.
But again that's just a guideline and
you can use them however you want.
The difference with tuples and
lists is that tuples are immutable.
Once a tuple is created,
you cannot change the items in it.
You cannot append you cannot pop.
You cannot do an assignment
at an index like you
could with a list But tuples are sorted.
So they have an order to them and
how they're stored so
you can access the zeroeth item in a tuple
and the first and so on and so forth.
There are occasions where you expect
an immutable types you don't want
to pass a list into a function
because it might get changed by
something later down the line.
And so tuple is a great way of ensuring
that the data structure that you
are passing around won't change.
One of the good uses for tuple is storing
information in a row in a spreadsheet.
So a spreadsheet might have different
values and different columns and
the tuple can be used to represent that.
Now, I'm not going to go
too deep into tuples.
But there are some important
things that I want to show you.
And again, I really recommend that you
type along with me in the ripple because
that's how you're going to
get the muscle memory to
really differentiate between these
different kinds of data types.
So a tuple like a list was
defined with square brackets.
tuple is defined with parentheses.
So if we assign this to a variable And
we take a look at the type.
We'll see that it's a tuple.
But there's kind of a gotcha here.
What if I say that my tuple
only has one item in it
Can anyone on zoom tell me
what the type is of my tubal,
my tube
>> String I believe
>> It's a string.
And that's because, remember when
we did our math operations and
we defined The order that we would like
things to be executed with parentheses.
Python doesn't really know how to
differentiate that syntax from
the tuple syntax.
So tuple isn't just the parentheses
tuple is actually the parentheses and
a comma Since a very,
very important differentiation,
this one has bitten me lots and
lots of times.
If you want to define
a tuple with one item in it,
you need to make sure that
you include a trailing comma.
So that will look like this.
Now, if I say that my_tup is
equal to this and I ask for
the type(my_tup), it is now a tuple.
So make sure that you
have that comma in there.
Now, when you're creating a tuple you
can just use these parentheses and
then let's say we have a student and
we're going to have a name.
And we're going to have, age and
subject maybe like a GPA.
Now we can get the item that
is at the zeroeth index.
Remember, tuples are immutable and
we cannot change it.
One of the useful features of tuples
that you might see and lists in Python
is called tuple unpacking So you can get
multiple items out of a tuple at once.
And we can do that when we declare our
variables we separate them with commas.
And then assign those to
the value of the tuple.
And now I have all of these pulled out.
Note that when you do this,
the number Have arguments on the left
hand side need to match the number
of argument items in the tuple or
you're going to get this value
error too many values to unpack.
You will see this error a lot.
So remember it.
That means that the items, number of items
on the left hand side of the expression
don't match the number of items in.
The right hand side, if there's
something that you don't care about,
you can use a shortcut called underscore.
And that means like, I need, I know
I need to match the number of items.
I don't care about saving this one
in a variable, toss that one away.
So that's also syntax that you might see.
>> Does that syntax work with arrays or
only tuples?
It works with lists as well.
But generally, you'll mostly see
the syntax used with tuples.
Because remember that lists are mutable.
So as lists change, you don't have that
guarantee that the number of items on
the left hand side are going to match
the expression on the right hand side.